Say something.
Yes.
What is the fidelity in this thing right here?
Can we hear with this?
Just try it out.
Test one, two, three, four.
Test, test, test, test, test.
One more one.
Very good.
Very good, let's hear it.
That's a fiction of words to me and I get anything.
The length of which my novel about this character has been on the full receipt is a little bit referring to me as well as Caroline.
I can only think that rabbit, such as arrival in my prose over 30 years ago, has been for me a way in, into the matter of America.
When I'm in his head,
and I am riding them, so to speak.
The tales of envisioned American landscapes and cityscapes take on for me an interest or flow of poetry of importance they do not have when I look at them with my own eyes.
For he is, and has always been, a kind of man I am not, an athletic hero of heroic youth who, having lived back to the body, though it represents tired and old before his time.
But through his possibly narrow perceptions and his instinctive present tense, the great elusive nation all around us offers itself to be funneled and be candid.
So at least I have found it.
Those who do not find this character and his will possibly viable resist or sniff, no doubt.
The point I wish to worry is not whether our spirit is
covered as a war, but what America does, though all the fiction written and all the fiction years being trained in colleges, seem to remain opaque or vaporous.
How many of our classics, notoriously, deal not with American society, but its asocial margins?
A whale hunt on the high seas, a refugee boy, a black slave on a river raft, the outcast, tested crimp,
the expatriate heroes of Hemingway and Henry James, seeking fulfillment and aesthetic satisfaction everywhere but at home in the United States.
One can make too much of this, but assume it is somewhat true.
What might the reasons be?
Let me propose four.
One, with exceptions like Watkins and Irving and Wood and Dean Howells, who tend to bore austerity.
The American writer has few traditional ties to the power establishment of the country, and ordinarily distrusts and scorns its politicians, businessmen, bureaucrats, managers, and even its workers.
All those, in short, who make the society go are dismissed by a puritan idealism that seeks to compromise with end maneuvers of striving actuality as unworthy of sympathetic consideration.
Two, the ideal of a classical society, in which there is no aristocracy, no peasantry, no certain class, in a perverse way makes us less accessible to one another by depriving our imaginations of those colorful badges and mannerisms and assigned duties with which characterization can begin.
Three, the very triumph.
of American popular culture in this century coats the individual whom the writer would hold up to cultural study in an impervious skin of cultural cliché.
The crises of will and desire that occupy 19th century novels are, as it were, kidded away by the image-faturated modern consciousness, which has pre-experienced everything in the trivializing and building abundance of unearned sophistication
This weariness of knowingness was wonderfully captured in the fiction of the late Donald Barberman.
And for, perhaps a culture that never had a classic or meaningful epoch doesn't need one much to say about being human.
When, in a nation soundly founded on 18th century rationalism and 19th century laws of material exchange, almost Haitians have been stripped of superstitious loyalties and quixotic delusions
What is left is a bald consumer, an animal of purely selfish appetites and purely biological motives whose genetically determined life events scarcely warrant the glamorization of fiction.
For whatever reason, America remains something of a riddle to the practitioners of fiction, a tougher nut to crack than you would think.
Several able journalists
advise us simply to seize the beast by the horns, do some research, and conduct a few interviews, and lay out the facts in lively Zola-esque fashion.
And of course, facts should be collected.
It's going to shake some people up.
It's going to really rock some people.
Because it just goes to absolutely the heart of what's going on in our country.
in many many ways and it's symbolized for these horses and how they're treated and how they live and what their struggle is about and uh it's a huge i don't think universal has any idea what they're sitting on they're sitting on a huge story here so
Yes.
I'm real excited.
I just did a week in Nevada, you know, and it's just mind boggling.
Mind boggling.
How do you personalize the title?
You've got the great visual elements of the horses and stuff, and what's being done with them, but what's the human element?
Well, the human element for me is...
I like to write about situations that are simple, that involve one person and their dilemma.
Now, there may be people that are satellites around that person, but generally just one figure.
And what I try to do is I try to make it so that you kind of live the story through that person, and that's how I try to personalize it.
How do you see it visually, though?
Because you are thinking about... You mean with books or with... Well, no, because you're thinking about... I suspect you're thinking about pictures primarily.
Is that right?
Well...
No.
I'm thinking about fiction all the time, too.
I see everything visually.
I see everything in pictures in my head.
The Mustangs?
Well, every case is different, a little bit different.
In the case of the Mustangs, I saw right away that there was something here that needed to be addressed.
That's right away what made me interested in the idea of doing it, is because there's something that needs addressing.
And I like to write about things like that.
So that attracted me initially.
And then the idea that I could...
I didn't want to do it because I didn't like the setup.
So I didn't want to do it.
And they came to me and they said, I'll tell you what we will do.
We would like for you to consider being executive producer and have a real share in this movie.
And I said, no, I'm really interested in what you're talking about.
And we went to several different studios and none of them wanted to pay me.
They had the People Magazine article on the wild horse killings a couple of years ago.
They come in waving this article saying we got the rights to this somehow.
Yeah, the Sun Founder story.
That's how producers work.
They just see the newspaper.
They run down after Farrah Fawcett or somebody.
And some work and some don't.
But it's a big, giant crapshoot.
I think it's even bigger than publishing.
Well, in terms of money, but I mean in terms of
even the risk, because nobody knows, see?
And everybody kind of thinks they do, but nobody does.
So you're sitting in a room and nobody knows who's holding the aces.
You've got all these people around here, and it's a bluff.
The whole thing's a bluff, you know?
That's why Kevin is so great in Hollywood.
He's a poker player.
He's a natural poker player.
I don't know if he even plays poker, but that's what his psyche is.
Oh, yeah.
He won't blink.
See, poker is an American game, as is crap, by the way.
It's true.
Well, you know I'm well enough to be able to key in on that.
How does this start?
I mean, this is how big it starts.
Dances?
Yeah.
How did dances start?
Dances started because I was interested in the history of my country.
Just interested in it.
So I started to read about it, about that particular era.
And the more I read about it, the more intrigued I became.
And I like to say that at one point what happened was my heart kept breaking.
and it would repair itself, and I'd go back to it, and finally my heart just filled up so much that it overflowed, and that's what came out of it.
But when we project what happened, you know, in terms of the movie, is this anything that you projected?
Oh, God, no.
Listen, people ask me this question more and more now, but that's okay.
There's a good answer for it I've formulated now, which is that
The best way I know how to explain it is that sure you have dreams.
You have dreams of doing everything.
Everybody has all these dreams.
I'm not curious what was on your mind when you did it.
What were you trying to achieve?
No, just when this whole thing, they perceived this thing and they thought about what it was doing.
Never mind Kevin Krasner in the movie.
Just when you sat down, were you trying to just make a statement?
Were you trying to...
Did you have any idea that you would be now in New York and that you would be up at 25 or 35 Academy Awards or whatever it is?
I can tell you what I knew.
I thought that I had a story that I was enjoying writing.
It doesn't happen to every writer.
You know that.
No.
I know that.
I had a story I was enjoying writing.
And I felt like it was a good story.
But beyond that, I wasn't really trying to make a point, although I made a lot of them.
It's kind of the way I tell stories, you know?
I'm going to do these readings.
Anybody that hears these readings, I'm going to read from a lot of different stuff that I'm doing, fiction-wise.
You'll see I'm really interested in addressing things.
Where does this spring from?
Just give me a little bit of your background, what this brings from.
Because I don't know any of your background.
Yeah, who cares what this brings from?
Dances with wolves?
Yeah.
Okay.
I have a special dance.
All right.
Okay.
What's really interesting is when you read about the captive stories.
And what's really wild about it is that what is documented on it, the percentage of white women that were taken by Indians that wanted to come back to their own society was pretty shocking.
for its smallest.
And you didn't get the same...
feeling any Indians that have been kidnapped by whites wanted to stay where they were.
They always wanted to return.
So how do you counsel them?
Well, I think that they had something going.
And I think that their principles are applicable today.
Well, a lot of different things.
I think one of the things that's really great that they had going was that they didn't consider themselves superior to nature.
They didn't consider nature something to be exploited or to be bent to their wills.
Most of these Indian people were really proud that they were in partnership with nature.
That's a principle that means real heavy application now.
We're dreaming right now.
We're dreaming that everything is just swell.
this adventure is not for everyone
What's wrong with her?
She's a baby?
Ready?
Here we go, Barb.
Here we go.
There we go.
Here we go!
We're going down into a tunnel!
And we're going to go right now!
All right, Bob, here we go.
OK.
Whoo-hoo!
No!
Are you kidding?
That was better than the last time, wasn't it, Clark?
Yeah.
Is that something or was that something?
That was something.
Whoo.
All right.
All right, Bob.
Let's get out.
Whoo.
Was that something or was that something?
What did you say now?
Yeah, tomorrow.
Yeah, I think maybe Nicole's a little too little to us.
Remind my kind words that your constant is a life-supporting oxygen.
It's not only that, but we are beginning to change itself.
Oh, no, no, no.
.
Hey, Bob, are you going to watch the parade or what?
Okay.
Can I have some?
Okay, it's right there.
Thank you.
Say hi, Mickey.
Hello, Mickey.
yeah yeah
No way.
Thank you.
.
Oh, my God.
What?
Oh, my God, my God, my God.
Thank you.
Oh, yeah.
We will be, we will go.
Thank you.
.
Quite frankly, to sit down with each and every one of them and devote their time as they like.
They don't only run from people who are wanting to write a book themselves to make some bucks on it, which is fine.
It's also lots of high school students who want to write it for their newspapers.
And I just don't have the time to do it.
It is going to be done this once.
And it's going to be done because I was the one living it.
And I think I could be the fullest view of what the campaign was about.
And I think what we'll be able to say at the end is not only what can be meant for the country, but what it means for the future for women in politics, which I'll be dealing with as well.
So whether or not it was Bantam saying to me, we don't want you to do it, or it was almost a relief that I do have that kind of a cause so that I can do what I have to do, get it out.
And then people use the book any way they want, for their own research or for whatever.
to tell their story, to give their views.
Could you describe the actual process of writing, and how long you've had each other?
Painful.
It was Linda Franke and I started together in December, and we were between four and five hours.
December of 84?
I couldn't have done before that.
I had to wait for November 6th.
But we sat for four to five hours a day, just about five days a week whenever I was in the city, and talked about every aspect of the campaign from the selection process through the debate, through the financial stuff, through the situation with the Archbishop Cardinal O'Connor,
We had, after we did that, we, Linda used, fortunately there wasn't already kept.
It was kept in the Washington Post, the New York Times, and I don't know how many newspapers throughout the country.
We took clips and used those.
I went through them with her.
I went through with her the schedules that I had, which we of course had.
We had some tapes that I had made, some tapes my children had made.
spoke to staff people who had participated in the campaign and used my speeches as well as legal briefs filed for me and various actions I was involved with after the election and used briefs filed for my husband.
And so we've gotten substantive things that we've used.
We haven't made up anything.
It's all there, and we throw in the emotions.
By the way, there's the rest of the physical part that, of course, she is working on the word processor.
She submits the first draft to me, and I work on it.
Cross out, put in.
I'm not a professional writer.
These people aren't shared.
Though I was an English major in college, I did have a minor of journalism for a while, folks.
but not good enough to do this on my own.
And so Lynn and I have been working together, and then I've been working with the editor, and we'll be finished, hopefully, by July 1.
In speaking before a group like this, do you comment at all in your book on the attention that the media gave you, number one?
And number two is, in speaking before this room, do you comment on the media's attention and treatment for you and your husband?
Sure.
I do deal with the press.
I don't deal with it in a separate chapter.
I do it throughout the book.
I do it, for instance, when we just
I do it in a chapter called On the Road where we talk about what went on in various places.
I discuss, I say, as I said today, that the traveling press I had was terrific.
They were professionals who did their job.
Part of the problem, beginning with me, I had difficulty adjusting from being a third-term member of Congress to being a national figure overnight.
And I take some responsibilities.
That wasn't a major concern.
That wasn't the part that led to problems for any of us.
I also deal with the New York Post Total Conquire.
It is not a whining book, let me just tell you that.
It is an up book.
Because when all is said and done, when I said I don't regret it, I don't.
There's a time when I was asked for this.
And I used to say, as the mother of Donna and Laura, I absolutely have no regrets.
But as Mrs. Johnson-Carroll, I'm not quite sure.
And I said that at an event when my husband said that we have no regrets.
So he doesn't.
That he feels it was worthwhile.
But I agree with that.
But I feel honestly with that.
I'd be honest with you in the book.
Would your husband encourage you to go back in again?
We haven't discussed the future.
I'm looking at a possibility of a Senate run, but we haven't discussed it because I have not gotten to the point of really even doing polls yet.
I'm trying to do one thing this time, which I'm finding is much tougher than I have to do.
Did you mention the role of women in politics as you?
Well, I discuss, you know, what it's like to be a woman candidate, for one thing.
Things that were expected of me, things that, how the distress dealt with me, what people expected of me, how they responded to me.
But I think one of the things, too, is that this type of candidate will not happen again.
And that's one of the things that we're going to point out as well.
That the next time a woman runs, she's going to be ready for it.
She will have, perhaps, run into progress.
I would venture a suggestion that in ADA you're going to see a couple of women in the primary.
So that it would not be the same type of situation.
It would not be all of a sudden, oh my god, look, this has happened.
And so what I talk about are things that help people respond to things like clothes.
You're not supposed to wear that.
You sink into beige.
You disappear.
I mean, that type of thing.
But, you know, we talk about this where it's likely a woman's bill.
What is your dedication about telling?
I'm not telling.
I haven't written the dedication yet, but that's going to be a surprise for the individual I'm doing.
How much of a completed manuscript has been handed in to Bantam at this point?
Bantam has seen, I would say, 95% of it.
We have one more chapter.
That's it.
That's female.
First of all, I'd like to comment that your attitude is fabulous.
Thank you.
It's a fabulous attitude.
Secondly, I think this is one of that coming I've ever seen.
No, this is not female.
Also female, if you have her name.
Look, we can get it.
It is really excellent.
That's my mom.
Isn't that pretty?
In the book you said that, or in your talk this morning, you said that there was a great deal of emotional hurt.
Do you get involved with the taxes and your husband in the book?
I deal with everything.
Yeah, there's a good deal of emotional hurt.
There are parts of the book that when I was reading, I choked up much more physically than I ever choked up in the campaign because I wasn't a doctor then.
But, yeah.
What about life on the outside of college?
Have there been any reactions?
Yes, lots of reactions.
Women love it.
People come and say, I'm so glad you did it.
And I think that when people have seen it, we got hit very hard because I think people jumped at it without having seen it.
Have you seen it?
It's really, I think, quite good.
It does two things.
It says women can be whatever they want to be, which is
But I was talking about what my campaign meant.
And that's so.
But also, it talks about motherhood as being a very, very important career choice.
And the reason we did that was we found that during the course of the campaign, women who were at home, either by choice or not by choice, because they were raising families, a good number of themselves, that what I had done was somehow putting their job down.
And we wanted to make it clear that, you know,
important if that's what your choice is.
So no one has said that it's some kind of a shout-out?
Oh, no.
Not since people have seen it.
I think there are people who still feel that way, aren't you?
Obviously, they're not going to come to me and say, hey, you sold out.
But the reaction that I had is very good.
And the women cannot say, I'm just glad to be with you.
No, you're still there.
How has the acceptance action changed the majority of the ideas of what they wanted to do?
No, part of the reason why that's not something we really worried about is that they use different names or not.
My husband's name is Carol.
But in addition to that, these are kids who have been achievers, you know, since they went to school and before that.
You know, when Dr. Kozo taught that, he and I were discussing that earlier,
She was three years old in reading.
While I was a school teacher, and when you're home and that's what you're doing, you spend your time pushing your kids.
And, you know, she has a leg up on a lot of other kids whose parents aren't capable of doing something like that.
And we're talking about that as a parent issue.
So our kids have been a teacher so long.
The interesting thing that you ask about my doors, my three kids have always felt that they're going to do whatever they want to do, and they're going to be whatever they want to be, and they didn't need me to run to prove it to them.
They're under that impression, and that's been fine.
They've always known that they could be anything at least as great as their brother, and not better.
I mean, they have a wonderful attitude.
I've watched two sisters between the male, this poor male child in the middle in our household.
The girls are going to go back in their own lives.
Laura starts Brown in September.
She still wants to be an actress, but thinks that what she will do is be a lawyer just to be safe and then she'll act on the side.
And she thinks the Pepsi commercial is fine because she got a SAG card, which she was unable to get.
He will do that.
John has decided he's going to go into politics, which I think is dynamite.
He had never thought of running for office before.
He has got his life now in order.
He's going to finish college, go to law school, and run for office.
And he'll finish college, but he may run for office before he even goes to law school.
He has decided he's going to be a politician.
He's decided he's going to be an office owner.
He's decided that he's going to speak up on issues and on places.
But he's the only one who's decided in that direction.
Can you tell us some of the keys to your success in reaching denominations and the general keys to your success in America as well?
Well, if I had the keys to success, we would have won the election.
I talk in the book about the selection process.
The process was an unusual thing because it was not the normal.
The way most people get chosen is vice president.
the senate by having a track record by being governor of the state by um you know by running for the presidency that's how most people get to be vice president my selection was a little bit different i did not run for it but it turns out that during the course of the previous four years i've been doing the things that put me in a position to make me noticeable whether it was with the national committee the midterm conference the hunt commission and various other
So those are pieces that came together, but it was not that I ran for a young run, not in the way I selected as you would actually run for the president.
Well, I'm talking about the American dream sort of thing.
What are some pieces of success in America today to reach success?
generally, maybe in business and holidays or whatever.
The big one, the big key is what goes out about this morning, education.
And that's what was with me.
And I've said on more than one occasion that I had an uncle when I was 16 who said to my mother, don't bother him.
She was saying, you've sent me to college.
She's pretty.
She'll get married.
I was.
I did.
But the thing is, that was the attitude then.
And she just said, hey, listen, I didn't get an education.
She's going to get it.
That's why, again, I think the administration's policies are just so short-sighted, so unfair.
We're reading out a whole segment of our population saying we can't do it.
It says nothing to do with race or money.
If you do not plan to run for president or vice president, I would like to know what other American women would you suggest to run for the next person?
Well, let me say that there are lots of women who might be coming up who can take a run and do it on their own.
Run for president, because you don't really run for vice president.
As I said, you run for president.
I say on the Democratic side, people moving, like Harriet Woodson, I'm sure will be the next senator from Missouri,
exceptionally good job as the governor of that state.
Madeline Kuhn is a brand new governor.
She's had a good deal of public experience as the Senate governor.
Very sharp.
And knows where she's going and what things are down.
We have some good women in the House, too.
I mean, let's face it.
Dick Gabbard can talk about running from the House for president.
So can, you know, Patricia Schroeder or a few others.
On a Republican side, I do that as well.
Let me just say to you that some of my friends are Republicans.
in 1984 by a large majority and has done a very, very admirable job at the United States at the different campus.
Libby Dole, I think, is another possibility.
Don't slip a coin and then have hope.
It'll be interesting if Lisa's going to do it.
But I think she's a possibility.
And people talk about Jean Kirkpatrick.
I think she's certainly very talented, very bright.
I think she might have a little trouble going around and doing the things that you have to do in order to run, which is run.
I'd shake hands with people and do lots of, you know, communicating with the rallies and stuff.
I don't know if that's her personality, but, you know, we've got a lot of talented women in this country.
Do you think that the country would like to see a woman as a vice president before she could go for the big one?
I don't know.
You know, I think when people run for vice president, I think most people have in their mind that if something were to happen to the president, that that person could be president.
And that's how they judge.
People, when they talked about it was not whether or not I could be vice president.
It's an important job, but what are the decisions that you make?
It was not whether or not I could be vice president or whether or not I could be president.
And that was the test, whether or not I could stand up, too.
Whether or not I'd have the courage to push a button or not push a button.
whether or not I could deal with the Soviets, whether or not I would be able to address the problems in this country on the domestic side.
I mean, those are the things we talked about.
So that even if they're voting for a woman in a vice presidential spot, they're really considering whether or not should be able to run and be or do the job of president.
I'd like to ask a question about the educational system.
What are some of the things you think should be done in the same half of the educational system?
You know, for one thing, I think what we're doing in this country is fine, which is giving the educational system to the individual states and the individual communities to run.
I think it's very difficult to put a blanket rule on what's done in education, but I think that we have to deal with things like Head Start programs,
I think that if you don't deal with that problem with the literacy that he's talking about, you know, it is a real problem.
We had, when I was teaching, I had second and fourth graders.
I had a fourth grade class where a child could read on a first grade level, and he had been left back a couple of times, so he's already 12, 13 years old.
You tell me if he's going to read a book and speak to Jane and all that stuff.
So I said,
dealing with scores, because that's what he was interested in.
I think what we have to do is we have to look at our kids' needs and go in and particularly deal with them.
How do you deal with them?
You've got to put some federal money into the program.
Title I, what is Title I?
It's now chapter I. You have head and start having real problems.
You've got to use the kids in their middle and use that training through the system.
I think also we've got to deal with education for colleges.
We're cutting student loans, and we're putting people in the position where, sure, Donna's a carer who can go to Harvard because their parents can afford it, but it's not going to be available to a lot of other kids, middle class kids, and that's wrong.
I mean, you know, as a mother, I'm delighted my kid has a life out, but it's wrong that she should have it because we can afford it.
I mean, I don't know why she has it because she's worked for it and paid for it, and that's why she got it, and that's okay.
A couple of months, what I've been focusing on is my thoughts on running Spice Press.
I've been looking back for the past seven months.
I will start looking forward in another month.
You have no thoughts?
No.
I've thought, but not about that.
Yes, in view of the results, I wonder if in your book you assess whether or not a woman on the ticket helped or hurt.
I don't think we really do, but I spoke, it did not hurt, let me start off by telling you that.
I spoke to, I think we do, I don't remember.
Could you address yourself?
I'm trying to figure out whether or not everything that I, everything I know about this campaign is totally in the book.
What we did, what we found out was there are certain,
It did not hurt.
What we found at my time from Adam Klamer, this is what I'm not quite sure is in the book, who does poems in the New York Times, said to me that what we added in numbers as opposed, not a big deal, eight-tenths of 1%.
When you're 18 points behind, it is not a big shake.
But we did not take away.
And the other piece of it is we added in different ways.
Democratic Party now has 20,000 contributors it never had before.
20,000 new contributors added to a list.
We did fundraisers throughout the country and raised $6 million.
Lots of new money.
People who had never before contributed campaign all of a sudden got involved.
And I'm not just talking about big bucks.
I'm talking about a fundraiser in California where
The great majority of people were waitresses that paid $65 a ticket to come and have breakfast with me.
I didn't eat.
They didn't eat.
They really didn't have to pay me $65 to don't shake my hand because they could have done that outside because I was doing that outside, too.
But for them, it was investment in what they believed we were doing for the future of the country.
So in that way, we added.
We had new contributors.
We had new involvement.
We also brought in volunteers, which I've been told
And of course, I think the enthusiasm that we found in our rallies, that continued up until the last day.
So no matter what, I mean, it gave it back to the campaign.
It was not a war.
Now, again, we deal with it, but I don't know if I specifically mentioned Adam Clymer and Nicole.
I kind of doubt I mentioned by name.
Last quick question.
Yeah.
I kind of, you know, I don't think so.
The thing is, I think they're going to have a little trouble with, I mean, in New York State especially.
I mean, my mayor wrote a book.
It's now a play.
My governor wrote a book.
I mean, you know, so how, you know, mercy is not.
The other thing, too, is I think what happened was when people jumped at me, they really didn't realize that other people, men, have been doing commercials for a while.
For instance, Howard Baker.
quit as the senator in order to prepare for 1988 to run for the presidency, is now doing ads, and hasn't been doing since before I did the presidential, for USA Today.
He not only does media, the electronic, but he does print ads, and he actually sells the newspaper.
It's been said that he did not get paid for it.
However, he is on the board of USA Today, and you don't do that for nothing.
And in addition to that, it'll be interesting to see what they do with him in 1988.
They are a newspaper.
They do have an editorial endorsing policy.
I have a little more problem with that than I have with Pepsi.
I don't think Pepsi's going to endorse him if I decide to remember the president.
And anyway, that's it.
Thank you very much.
Take care.
Get your lead.